# CSI 4810 Project: Vehicle Loan Default Prediction
### Willow Connelly
### Department of Computer Science, Oakland University

---

#### INTRODUCTION
The purpose of the project is to predict whether a borrower is likely to default on their monthly car loan or not. When one defaults on a loan, that means that they have not only failed to pay by the agreed upon due date, but also failed to pay during the late-payment grace period usually provided by the financial institution. Once a loan has become default, collection attempts are now permissible by the lender upon the borrower. If such attempts fail, they may even escalate the situation and take further legal action against the loanee. This is not only costly for the financial institutions, but also for the customers as well. 
As the need for long distance transportation grows, more people are in need of vehicles. Vehicles can be quite costly; therefore, more people are seeking out loans to help finance their purchase. This is both beneficial and harmful to these institutions. The increased demand means more potential profit, yet it also yields an increased risk for borrowers to default. This necessitates a way to accurately predict whether a customer will default or not by using past data that is relatively easy for the business to collect. This would be beneficial towards financial institutions who disburse these vehicle loans. It will give them greater confidence in approving customers’ loans and provide them with a stronger degree of confidence that their money will be returned on time and with interest. With this new prediction model, an additional benefit goes towards the customers. They will also be able to save money since the lender is more confident in their creditworthiness and is able to provide them with a more personalized interest rate on their loan. This is because a customer’s interest rate is inversely proportional to their risk level of defaulting [1]. Being able to predict whether a customer will default on their loan provides multiple benefits to both parties; thus, promoting a safer and more enjoyable business relationship.
